[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaiam Inspirations."
If you care what's happening
to the Earth's oceans,
then pay close
attention to this show.
My guest, Patricia Cori,
is a powerful voice
for our Earth's oceans.
She's been called the
real life Indiana Jones
by fans and readers
around the world.
And Patricia has written a
novel called "The Emissary,"
and it's filled with many
truths revealed through fiction.
Welcome.
Thanks for being here.
>>PATRICIA CORI: Oh, thank you.
It is great to be
with you above all.
>>LISA: I'm excited.
I want to call you
the Anna Jones.
>>CORI: All right.
Anna Jones.
I can do it.
>>LISA: The female
Indiana Jones.
So why do people call you that?
>>CORI: You know, I don't
know where I got that tag.
Somewhere way back in the media,
and possibly a few travelers
who have come with me on
some of my sacred journeys.
But I think it
comes from the fact
that I'm climbing
around pyramids,
I've been in places where
most people can't go,
I locked myself into a
temple in Abydos, Egypt
for five hours in
the dark so that I
could meet the spirits there.
>>LISA: Did you meet them?
>>CORI: I did.
>>LISA: Wow.
It's in my book "Where Pharaohs
Dwell," which is such a story.
>>LISA: Oh, my goodness.
>>CORI: And I've been crawling
around under the Great Pyramid
and hanging off cliffs.
And you wouldn't think so,
because I'm not exactly
a spring chicken,
but I still do it.
I'm fascinated by what
the world has to offer.
>>LISA: What is that?
What is that calling that
calls you towards the ocean
and towards the sacred sites?
>>CORI: I have always--
as a young woman,
I started traveling
when I was really young.
And my mother, who
was a great visionary,
said, live this planet,
live this life, honey.
Go for the gusto.
And I've always just been drawn
to walk to a different drummer.
And I go to places that
are rich in culture.
I think, also the
fact that I started
traveling at a young age, when
cultures were very different,
because now it's sort of like
a McDonald's across the board.
But back in those days--
>>LISA: It's gotten a little
bit more vanilla-ized.
>>CORI: You got it.
You got it.
It was so much different then,
and it just got into my blood.
>>LISA: What was different?
What was different?
>>CORI: You-- for example I
live in Europe, and from country
to country now it really
looks all the same.
But back then in Amsterdam, they
still wore the wooden shoes.
In England, the
bobbies still looked--
they didn't have
guns-- they still-- it
was just still
intact culturally.
And there was no Euro,
of course, which has also
amalgamated so much-- and
that's just Europe, of course,
but-- You know, back in
those days people still
wore their traditional clothing.
Egyptians still wore jellabiyas.
>>LISA: They held
onto their culture.
>>CORI: Yeah.
And it was a beautiful
thing to experience.
>>LISA: Do you think
that because we've
lost a lot of that tradition
through these cultural shifts
that it has added to
more of the devastation
that you see in our
oceans and our planet?
>>CORI: I think so.
First of all, we know
that the transporting
of goods, particularly
vegetables and food,
so that everybody has the
same food is killing us.
It's killing us
because of the expense
and the abuse of
fuel and things like
that that are destroying
the atmosphere.
>>LISA: What do you mean by
everybody having the same food?
>>CORI: Well, there was a time
when if you live in Italy,
you do not have 100 choices
for vegetables and fruits.
And that still is true.
Italy still holds to its
tradition and to its food.
But to have bananas
from Ecuador and papaya
from Israel, this
kind of thing, this
means so much more
traffic, so much
more air traffic or shipping.
And this is my
particular concern,
because we know how
badly we're polluting
the ocean and the sky.
>>LISA: Yes.
A lot of both.
>>CORI: So this globalization
is just not good for the planet.
>>LISA: You see it.
So what did you write
about in "The Emissary?"
Is it a-- I mean, it's through
a fiction, and it's a novel,
but what's the truth that
you based the book on?
>>CORI: It's very
interesting that you
ask that question
considering that one
of the events in "The Emissary,"
at the beginning of the book
has just happened
in Marina Del Rey,
and that is 70,000 to
100,000 fish floating
to the top of the water, with
nobody understanding what's
happened.
In "The Emissary,"
the book starts out
with three vignettes.
The first is that a man
is driving home from work,
and as he stops to talk to
a friend in the road, 600,
700 blackbirds drop dead.
Blank.
Instantaneously, simultaneously.
And this has happened
in Ohio recently,
and it's also happened in, I
think, Little Rock, Arkansas.
So this is an unexplained event.
And then the second vignette
is that a woman walks out
of her house in Maine
and sees 30,000,
40,000 fish strewn on the beach.
>>LISA: The story I heard was--
in the news-- about the fish
was that there was an algae
that had blossomed, a spring
blossoming of an
algae that released
a toxin that killed the fish.
What do you think about that?
>>CORI: I think that they
haven't proven that yet,
and that that's a hypothesis,
but as far as I understand
it hasn't been proven yet.
And we do know that there
are all other possibilities,
including some very strange,
perhaps weapons or things that
have to do with waves--
electromagnetic waves--
and we just don't know yet.
>>LISA: Sonar frequencies.
>>CORI: Sonar frequencies.
Although sonar is
probably more devastating
to the marine mammals.
And this is a theme in
"The Emissary," absolutely.
>>LISA: Hasn't sonar
been outlawed yet?
>>CORI: No.
What's happened is the Navy has
petitioned and gotten approval
to do a five year program of
war exercises in the oceans,
in California particularly.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>CORI: And they're going to be
sending very, very high powered
sonar waves, laser
waves, bombs, chemicals,
whatever they want to
do in the Pacific Ocean.
And they're going for it.
Five year plan.
>>LISA: Oh.
Like our Pacific Ocean hasn't
been devastated enough.
>>CORI: And the marine
mammal sanctuaries
are no longer protected.
And they're going for broke.
And this means a
lot of whale species
are really already
threatened with extinction,
like the right whales.
And there's a right
whale sanctuary
right in their target, and a
nursing-- birthing-- sanctuary
that will be affected.
>>LISA: Can't-- I mean, I know
that there's been laws that
have been attempted to
be passed around this,
and Greenpeace has done an
enormous amount of movement
in this area in terms
of killing whales.
Can't there be anything done
to stop the sonar frequencies?
>>CORI: Well, I'm certainly
speaking out about it,
and there are some
organizations that
are doing their best to
petition against this.
Barbara Boxer was
someone that was
involved in trying to stop this.
But it's going ahead.
It's the military.
>>LISA: Wow.
Well, we have
awareness that we're
going to be bringing
about today.
And I want you take
a look at the trailer
that Patricia has around her
book called "The Emissary."
Take a look.
>>CORI: Hi, everybody.
I'm Patricia Cori.
I hope a lot of you know me.
And I'm here to talk to you
today about my new novel.
I'm really excited-- my
first novel, actually.
It's called "The
Emissary," and it's
just been released by
North Atlantic Books,
and is also just released in
England, where I am currently
preparing the concert for the
whales and dolphins entitled
Singing the Oceans Alive, which
is my creation for Save Earth's
Oceans, Inc., the newly formed
501(c) nonprofit organization
that I founded
two years ago now.
And this is our first big event.
And it's in great
timing with the release
of "The Emissary,"
which is stirring up
some excitement
and quite a buzz.
So, I hope that you
will look for it.
This is my 13th book,
although it's my first novel.
And I'm excited to report
that the book has already
received an option from a
Hollywood producer, Global
Universal Pictures, and so
we may be seeing it soon
in film, which
thrills me to death.
This is the story of a
woman who becomes involved
in a scene where 150 whales
and dolphins have beached
themselves in New Zealand.
And she has an incredible
connection with one
of the whales, a humpback
whale who is dying,
and she can sense that
this mother is pregnant.
And so she has a
psychic, if you will,
connection with this
whale and her baby,
and it is a central
theme to the story.
The story takes her
on a journey where
she's asked by a
CEO of a oil company
to go out on the ship that is
researching out in the Pacific
trying to find oil, and to
use her psychic talent so
that-- with the
excuse that using
her psychic vision, if
she can help them pinpoint
the location, they can do
less damage to the ocean.
And this is of real concern to--
especially on the West Coast
now, with all that's
going on in our oceans.
I think that it's very
important that we pay attention
to what's really
going on out there.
I've brought my concerns through
my heroine, Jamie Hastings, who
is determined to prevent any
further damage to the ocean,
and by contributing to this oil
company perhaps, she believes,
she can actually
prevent further damage.
It's not what it seems,
and soon this adventure
takes a very different turn.
And one of the
things that occurs
is she starts getting messages
from the whales and dolphins,
and that is why, of course, the
book is titled "The Emissary."
It's a very fast paced read.
People are coming out
with some very exciting,
wonderful endorsements
of the book,
and calling it a book
that you cannot put down.
And I'd like to see if
you agree with that.
So please pick up
"The Emissary."
It is in fine
bookstores everywhere.
It's all over the internet.
And if you don't find it in
your bookstore, just say,
I'm looking for "The
Emissary" by Patricia Cori,
and if they don't have it
they will certainly order it.
And I look forward to
hearing back from you.
You all know how to reach
me, and if you don't, here's
my website.
Let us know what you
think of the book.
And who knows, I might
just run into to you
when I'm in San Francisco, or
Los Angeles, on the West Coast,
right where the story's
located, because it talks
of damage to the
Western Seaboard.
It's about the Pacific Ocean.
It's about us.
[WAVES CRASHING]
And it's about all
the living creatures
of our oceans, all these
beautiful marine mammals.
And there may just be
a plot to kill them.
That is what the story of
"The Emissary" is all about.
You need to read it.
[WAVES CRASHING]
>>LISA: At the end of the
trailer you talk about
a nonprofit organization called
SaveEarth'sOceans.org, is that
right?
>>CORI: That's right.
>>LISA: What-- and you
started this foundation?
>>CORI: Yes.
I founded it together
with a woman named
Nicky Kilmers-Barber
back in 2012,
and we-- It's tricky doing this.
It takes so much to get
a 501(c)(3) approval from
the government, so we've been
just really launching it.
And we just did a
concert in London
called Singing the Oceans Alive.
And the idea for
this concert was
let's let the whales
and dolphins know
that humans are tuned
into their music.
It was with the Royal
Philharmonic Orchestra.
It was my first ever production.
And it was fabulous.
So we want to raise
consciousness with the children
and with people
as far as we can,
as far and wide that
there's something important
going on with the
music of the oceans.
>>LISA: Do you bring in the
sounds of the cetaceans?
>>CORI: Exactly.
>>LISA: Beautiful.
>>CORI: So almost every piece
had the haunting refrain
of the whales and dolphins
accompanying the music.
It was extraordinary.
>>LISA: I love that sound.
Is it a cry to you,
or is it a language?
What do you hear
when you hear it?
>>CORI: I think-- well,
I hear many things,
because I do also think that
the whales are calling out.
And there is suffering
there, even though we
don't want to think
about the suffering,
we don't want to think
about the sadness.
We know these animals to
be higher consciousness,
breathtakingly joyous beings.
But of course they are
hunted, they are suffering,
their calves are watching
the mothers being hoisted out
of the water in hooks.
So there is that.
But I'm trying my best to focus
on the light, and the music,
and the significance of a whale
call-- the humpback whales,
their calls can be up to
35, 40 minute refrains
with no repetition.
So there's some serious
music going on here.
And they can broadcast
this, it's estimated,
somewhere between a half a
mile to a mile in distance.
>>LISA: Oh, my goodness.
>>CORI: And I'm very
excited about it.
I think that they are
somehow relaying the music
around the planet and
speaking to the oceans.
>>LISA: And you've had the
experience to be in the ocean
during the time when these
animals are communicating
with each other, haven't you?
>>CORI: Yeah.
Well, I go every summer.
I've started being out with the
whales and dolphins in boats
for at least 10 years.
And in 2010 I went to the Azores
islands to swim in the wild
with dolphins, because I
had been once in a tank
and it ended up being a
healing for the dolphin.
But I wanted to never swim
with dolphins in a tank again.
And I decided, well, I'm
going have to jump in,
and if I'm going to
jump in, I'm going
to jump into the
wild, wild ocean.
>>LISA: Well, tell
me about the--
we have a picture here
of you in the tank
with this particular dolphin.
What are dolphins like when
they're in captivity like that?
>>CORI: Unfortunately,
of course,
they're like circus
animals, because they
are trained to respond to
the immediate gratification
of the fish or the food.
>>LISA: The reward.
>>CORI: And their job is to look
happy and jump through hoops
and to entertain humans.
And I'm adamant that
we close these centers.
And so being in the tank with
dolphins, I don't like it.
I don't think that we
should be doing that.
But in the case that I was in
Cabo San Lucas, in this tank,
I was there because I
wanted to experience
one dolphin, human
to dolphin contact.
No dancing, no
hoops, no nothing.
So they allowed
me as a journalist
to go in and be
with this dolphin.
And this particular dolphin
was very traumatized,
because they said that they
had found him swimming alone.
But I know that dolphins
don't swim alone.
So they probably ripped
him away from his pod.
And he was very nervous
and very unhappy.
And I've been a healer
for so many years
that what was supposedly
going to be a swim turned out
to me actually doing a
healing on this dolphin.
He swam into my arms,
because I told the trainer,
stop with the fish.
I don't want to
see him do tricks.
I want to see if there's any way
that we can touch each other.
And he swam out to me once.
She gave him the fish.
And then I said no more fish.
He swam around me again.
I put my arms out and I
said, can you feel me?
And he swam right into my arms.
>>LISA: And what
was the connection?
What was the
communication that you
received as a result of that?
>>CORI: Well, I-- as
an animal communicator,
I just felt his pain and
his trauma and sadness.
It makes me cry, so-- I
didn't want to do that.
But he swam into my arms and I
just-- automatic healer mode.
And, of course, there are
all these instructions.
Don't turn him in, don't
touch the dolphin here.
I just-- Pff.
And I went into healing, and
he fell asleep in my arms.
>>LISA: Oh, my goodness.
>>CORI: It was so amazing.
>>LISA: Closed his eyes?
>>CORI: Yeah, he did.
>>LISA: Aww.
>>CORI: And this
communication was thank you.
Thank you for caring.
It was very powerful for me,
and it set the stage for me.
>>LISA: Do you have contact
with this dolphin anymore?
>>CORI: I don't.
>>LISA: No?
>>CORI: I can't.
I just can't go anywhere
near a caged dolphin or whale
anymore, because as a
sensitive, I can hear a lot,
and I don't want
to hear that pain.
So I'm--
>>LISA: It's gripping
just to hear.
I I'm tense, just-- I'll look at
that a completely different way
now.
We're going to take a look here
at you in the Azores Islands,
right?
In your natural habitat.
Take a look here
at Patricia Cori.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>CORI: Hi, everyone.
We're here in the Azores,
which I have repeatedly
referred to as Atlantis.
And I'm not the only one,
because most of the locals
know.
You see pizzerias, and
restaurants, even wine labels
called Atlantis.
And it's kind of an
unspoken truth here.
But it has always been
Atlantis for me from the moment
I arrived, and I flew
over Pico Island.
And this mountaintop was
looming out of the cloud layer,
so that from the
airplane I could
see this mountain--
the Pico Mountain--
and then this fog beneath it.
And to be in an
airplane and see this,
it was just such an
exciting moment for me,
and I felt that I was home.
And so it's my mission
to bring as many people
here as possible without letting
the secret out and destroying
the intimacy of this
wonderful place, that here sit
nine islands which
I truly believe
are remnants of the
continent of Atlantis--
whether these are peaks
from the continent
or whether these are somehow
islands that were part
of the entire chain or the
entire continental structure.
To me and to people
that are with me now
and others that I
have shared this with,
there's simply no question.
Energetically there
is a return that you
feel when you get here.
And whether you are a psychic,
or whether you're just
sensitive enough
to pay attention,
it is unquestionable
that you have come home.
It's a very exciting
place to be.
And at this time when the world
is so fraught with disaster,
and catastrophe consciousness,
and fear, prophecy, doomsday,
all of this, you cannot help
but wonder as you walk through
these gardens of Eden if
you-- in my case at least,
I just feel that I'm recording
into my soul the beauty of this
great planet, walking
through gardens of Eden,
recording every leaf,
memorizing this beautiful world,
so that wherever my
next destination is,
I will have this incredible
gallery in my soul of all
the places of Earth
that most spoke to me.
And surely this is one.
But now is the time to take
yourselves to the beauty.
Let's get out of the focus of
all the disaster and trauma.
And sure, there's so much of it.
I don't for a moment
suggest that you
live in a la-la
land of resistance
to anything that
causes any suffering
or concern, because as concerned
citizens of this planet I
personally believe we
have a responsibility
to look at both aspects in
the duality of our reality.
We need to be open
to explore all of it,
to think about it, to
contribute to healing it.
But, that said, I'm
personally dedicated
in these years of my
life to taking myself
to the sacred places
and recording them
in this journal of my soul.
>>LISA: When you
went to the Azores
Islands was that home for you?
Did you feel at home there?
Looks like you are.
>>CORI: I had the most
amazing experience,
because I have an
affinity for Atlantis.
And when I was
flying to the Azores,
the mountain is called Pico
Mountain on Pico Island,
and this mountain was
looming through the clouds
and I looked out the
window and went "Ah!"
It's kind of strange to see
a mountain over the clouds.
And I just-- I think you'll
see that in the clip-- I say,
oh my god, this is Atlantis.
I'm home.
And that feels that way to me.
And the locals also
know that it's Atlantis.
So I was excited, because I
have this affinity for Atlantis.
>>LISA: Explain some
of the history of it
and the geography of Atlantis
and where it comes off of.
>>CORI: Well, we-- people are
always searching for Atlantis.
And it's been identified
as being in Bermuda, off
of Cuba, everywhere-- in the
Mediterranean, et cetera.
Plato said that it was
a real civilization,
and it was located right
outside the Pillars of Hercules,
which is the Straits
of Gibraltar,
and that is Atlantis, and--
I'm sorry, that is the Azores--
>>LISA: The Azores, OK.
>>CORI: So that's an
interesting thing to note.
And then my
understanding of Atlantis
is that it was not an island
as we are looking for,
but rather an incredibly
large continent that
extended from as far north as
Greenland all the way south
to the South American
continent, so that it had--
like other countries,
it had freezing cold,
it had blistering hot weather.
And it expanded in such
a way that of course this
would explain the facility for
pyramids and other structures
to have appeared in
similar cultures,
because there was this big
continent in the middle where
the Atlanteans brought it out.
>>LISA: So do you
think that it's just
an extension of
the mountain range
that either the water
rose or the island sank?
>>CORI: I do.
I think that first of all
the, Mid-Atlantic Ridge
is a mountain range
from Atlantis.
And I've been told, although I
don't know that-- personally--
that there are points where
ships cannot cross the Atlantic
because it is so shallow because
of this mountain range that
they could be in danger.
So that's very interesting.
It may not have been a total
cataclysm as we understand it,
but a rising of the
waters and the shifting
of Earth's continents.
>>LISA: And the people
on this island of Azores
believe that this was
the island-- or off
of the coast of Atlantis?
>>CORI: They do.
First of all, there's this
subtle nuance of the Atlantis
pizza parlor, Atlantis taxis.
And it's not that touristic.
It does enjoy an
ecotourism type of tourism,
but it's not the
kind of place that
would capitalize on that
just because it's cool.
>>LISA: What about the locals?
What do they say, the elders?
>>CORI: They know, They do know.
In fact, one of
the locals told me
that these two islands--
Horta, where I have my home,
and Pico-- are actually-- were
once above-- were connected,
land above water.
And you can see certain
structures there
that you can intimate were
connected, land mass connected.
And also the very
exciting news is
that last year a
fisherman was sailing off
of San Miguel, which
is not that far away,
and he saw a pyramid underwater.
And this pyramid supposedly
is perfectly aligned
and may be bigger than
the Great Pyramid.
>>LISA: Wow.
What about the cetaceans
in the area, the dolphins
and the wildlife?
Are they in any way
different than you notice
around the world?
>>CORI: That's a
very good question.
They are abundant.
>>LISA: Abundant.
>>CORI: There are so many
common dolphins there.
Do you know which ones they are?
>>LISA: Mm-mm.
>>CORI: The common dolphins
are these gorgeous creatures.
They have beige and
golden yellow stripes,
and wavy lines on their bodies.
And you can see thousands
of them in the water.
Thousands.
But it has a very rich
cetacean community there.
And as far as them being
different, they're just free.
>>LISA: They must feel safe,
if there is-- their numbers.
>>CORI: They're free, the
water is still relatively pure,
and they are abundant.
>>LISA: Let's take a
look here at Patricia
on a boat playing with some
of these wonderful dolphins.
Take a look.
>>CORI: We have spent
days on the water
with every species imaginable,
from Risso's dolphins, who
tend to be very shy.
They stay far away
from the boat.
They don't interact.
These dolphins, right at
the end of the meditation
and the invocation to
asking them to let us in,
they surrounded the
ship-- the boat.
They spun.
They swam on their backs.
They were totally
connected to us.
And we understand that
it's a little bit more
than the natural
process for them.
We understand that they heard
the call and came to join us.
We were with blue whales.
We saw two blue whales.
For those of you who understand
the cetacean community,
you truly know how rare it is
to get up close to a blue--
to even sight
them-- but to get up
so close that they're
next to the boat.
This also is a rare occurrence.
We have countless other tales
to tell, and some of my group
here will share
their impressions,
but one thing I
want to drive home
is that it was our intention
as emissaries of the human race
to open connection, open
contact at that very high level
of consciousness where
the heart speaks.
And this we accomplished with
great dignity, great humility,
great respect, and celebration.
So it has been a most
remarkable journey.
There will be more, but it's
the best kept secret in town.
>>LISA: I can see why you would
spend so much time up there.
Have you been in our Pacific
Ocean and off of the coast
here in these Pacific waters?
Is it same feeling?
>>CORI: Well, I've spent time in
Hawaii, which I know you love,
and we have so many
dolphins and whales there,
and I've been out in Vancouver.
And of course, just
living in San Francisco,
you've got plenty
of activity there.
But as far as it being
different, it's very different.
First of all the water
is more polluted--
I hate to tell you this--
than it is off of the islands.
That's not to say
that the Atlantic
Ocean is less polluted.
But in that place, the water's
really pretty clear still.
>>LISA: Population
isn't as dense,
of course, where you were.
>>CORI: Exactly.
In fact, the islands have
very low population density,
so that helps.
But I have based "The
Emissary" off of Vancouver.
And it's a ocean liner--
I'm sorry-- an oil research
vessel that is looking
for oil out there.
And as you know there,
unfortunately they've
opened up the Pacific
now for oil exploration.
>>LISA: Oh, I didn't-- more
than it's been explored?
>>CORI: Well, yeah.
More than it's been explored.
>>LISA: What type of
damage does an oil tanker
like that cause to the ocean?
>>CORI: For starters,
they're using sonar,
and sonar is blowing the
brains out of cetaceans.
This is the something
that I am dedicated--
I'm dedicating my
life to turning off
the sonar on the planet,
and "The Emissary"
is also dedicated to
educating people about that.
So the ocean research
vessels, even fishing vessels,
and of course the Navy,
are ripping the ocean apart
with these excruciating sounds.
And we're finding
dolphins and whales
with their brains
blown out, because they
have very large aural cavities.
And so the pressure of
sound can be very painful
and deafen them
or just literally
blow their brains apart.
>>LISA: Oh my god.
>>CORI: This is happening.
>>LISA: When they drill,
do they-- of course,
they must destroy the entire
ecosystem around the area
that they're drilling.
>>CORI: Yeah.
I forgot to mention
that, didn't I?
The drilling-- first
of all, the noise.
The noise is very,
very important.
But of course, as in the
Gulf did this ever end?
We're told that
it was an accident
and they were
plugging it up, but we
know that all these years of
dredging, dredging, dredging,
this oil is just seeping
out of the ocean floor.
It's very serious.
>>LISA: Now, talking
about seeping out,
we've got Fukushima.
And this is a very
serious ongoing issue
that has no end in sight.
What is it that you
know about this?
>>CORI: I don't understand
why the human race is
sitting back and doing-- really
not talking about Fukushima
because it's too scary.
But the truth is that at
the time that this occurred,
I want to know where were
the nuclear physicists, where
were the nuclear
engineers, why wasn't there
a global presence of all
of our top scientists
to do something about this?
Instead, Tepco had carte
blanche to fix the problem.
And some of the ideas
they had were sawdusting.
Sawdusting nuclear fission.
And then the latest
genius idea is
to build an ice wall
to somehow stop it
from seeping into the earth.
Meanwhile tons of
nuclear material
are pumped into the water
every day, our oceans,
and now into the Earth's crust.
>>LISA: Every single day.
I know that there has been
a band of scientists that
have been attempting
to collaborate on this,
but they're not
actually allowed in?
>>CORI: Well, I don't know
that they've been collaborating
as much as we need them, at the
level of the United Nations.
We need absolute
global intervention.
This is a global problem.
And this has not occurred.
So now Tepco asks for
our help and we give it,
but there are these fine gray
lines that are not defined.
And if ever there was
need for the United--
the world to come together,
it's now, about this.
Now, your question about
how this affects the oceans.
You know, you need to be very
concerned here in California,
because we know this mass is
moving into the West Coast,
and we see some very
devastating signs.
>>LISA: The mass of
the nuclear waste?
>>CORI: This-- let's
say plume, they
call it-- of nuclear
cloud, if you will.
>>LISA: Is it visible?
>>CORI: Oh, yeah.
It's trackable.
And we know that there's some
pretty devastating things going
on on the West Coast.
Readings, Half Moon Bay--
I don't know about here
in Southern California,
but it's happening,
and we are seeing some very
frightening things occurring.
More dead whales and dolphins.
The starfish are
turning to mush.
The sardine population
has disappeared.
And the seals are
turning up dead
with sores on their bodies.
We need to do something
about Fukushima,
and we need to do it globally,
and with great haste.
And now from a, let's say a
higher consciousness level,
I do believe that
Mother Earth knows
how to cope with
destruction and with--
>>LISA: Disaster--
>>CORI: --disaster.
And I'd like to think that
the Sun and the Earth--
celestial conscious
bodies-- are going
to be able to somehow put this
into some sort of framework
where it's manageable.
>>LISA: How?
>>CORI: You know, it's
beyond our understanding.
But we know there's-- the
Sun is such a powerful,
powerful being.
Perhaps the strange
goings on on the Sun
now may have something
to do with being
able to liberate the planet
from this horrible disaster
that we-- I don't know.
I think it's an esoteric
question, actually.
But I believe that
there may be some sort
of celestial
management energy that
can help us clear this
out, because otherwise I
don't know what's
going to happen here.
>>LISA: Do you think
that the Sun could
take care of the vapors
if they were to escape?
I mean, how could that--
what could possibly happen?
>>CORI: Well, when we consider
the Sun and its-- the energies
that are wrapping around
the planet all the time
and the magnetosphere,
things that
are a little bit beyond,
I'm sure, my understanding,
I don't think it's
unreasonable to think that
in that dynamic energy exchange
between the Sun and the Earth,
there may be a way that
the Sun is actually
able to absorb out some
of this nuclear fission.
I'm hoping.
>>LISA: Have you seen any
evidence of these plumes?
Have you seen what
they look like?
Are they-- you obviously
have seen the fallout of it.
But do you know where
they're located?
>>CORI: Nuclear fission and
nuclear waste are so insipid.
You can't really
visibly see them.
But we do have charts
now where we're
seeing heat sensitive images
of where this plume is moving.
And it's right over
Hawaii, and it's supposedly
going to be over California
within a month or two.
>>LISA: And what
happens to the fish,
if we were to eat the
fish from these regions--
which I wouldn't, I mean--
>>CORI: That's a good question.
And there's another
question, and that
is just because
it's over the water
and there's nuclear fission
going into the water,
does not mean that it's
not also in the air.
So I think it's shortsighted
for the human race
to think that, oh well, maybe
it'll be somehow just confined
to the Pacific Ocean-- which in
itself is so horrifying that I
can't even think
about it-- but we
do see these graphs
with this huge red plume
as far as heat sensitive
graphing moving dangerously
present now to California.
>>LISA: And if-- I mean,
what would that make people
want to move towards
the Atlantic to source
all of their fish?
I mean, that would of course
create an imbalance in that.
>>CORI: I think it's
time to stop eating fish.
That is going to get a reaction.
>>LISA: That was where
I was going with this.
>>CORI: I am personally a
vegetarian for 28 years.
But I think for a
number of reasons,
first of all-- between
the mercury poisoning,
and the Fukushima,
and all the toxicity--
and we know how toxic
our oceans are--
human waste-- I don't
need to go there.
I think it's time
to stop eating fish.
And also because the
fish need to eat fish,
the bigger fish need to
eat fish, the sea mammals.
We need to stop destroying
that food chain.
And so I think that it's time to
be consciously aware that when
you're sitting down to a
bowl of clams or whatever,
you are ingesting a
lot of this toxicity
and it's a choice that we need
to be more conscious about.
Add the Fukushima problem too.
>>LISA: It's
definitely-- I mean,
absolutely something
to consider.
In the fact that the fish are
eating the other toxic fish,
this is causing-- must
be causing devastation
within the entire food chain.
>>CORI: Exactly.
And they are also
eating plastic,
which is another subject we
need to address, and that is--
>>LISA: Let's talk about that.
>>CORI: --there are
now five islands
of plastic in the oceans.
>>LISA: Explain islands.
>>CORI: OK.
Where the currents sort of
come into a sort of a-- they're
actually called gyros--
the plastic waste
in the oceans, which is breaking
down into little pieces,
coagulates and forms density
and becomes eventually
like an island.
Very, very dense.
And then this gooey, horrible--
beneath these islands
is a sort of plasma of
decomposing plastic.
So the birds are eating
the plastic, the gulls.
The fish are eating this
gooey horrible stuff.
They're finding fish--
>>LISA: With it in
their stomach, yes.
>>CORI: --with plastic
in their stomachs.
And, you know, we're eating it.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>CORI: This is why I
formed Save Earth's Oceans,
to try to do my best,
in my small way,
to help awaken people to that.
We need to stop using plastic.
We are the plastic generation.
>>LISA: Yes.
Yes.
>>CORI: And there's so
much that we need to do.
>>LISA: Explain,
though, because these
are devastating and potentially
completely destructive
concepts that we're talking
about with the nuclear waste
and with the
plastics in the ocean
and where we're going with
this, within our lifetime,
is complete devastation.
What could your organization do?
What could one organization
do to help this?
>>CORI: What can one person do?
Look at Captain Paul Watson.
This man is out there
risking his life every day
on the ocean, and he
is integral in stopping
the Japanese from
killing whales.
So what can we do?
First of all, I believe
in the win-win scenario.
I'm not going with
the devastation
of the world, final
Armageddon belief system.
>>LISA: Exactly.
Wait.
Was Paul Watson the one
that strapped himself
on the front of the boat?
>>CORI: Did he?
>>LISA: Yeah.
Was he one of the ones?
Well, the members of
Greenpeace did that.
>>CORI: Greenpeace
did that, too.
And Paul Watson was one of
the founders of Greenpeace,
and then he broke
away, and-- I think
they weren't radical
enough for him.
>>LISA: Exactly,
because he was radical.
>>CORI: Yeah, he is.
And he does some radical things.
But he has been very integral--
that's not the right word--
very decisive in being part of
the ending that we just were
able to rejoice
about a month ago,
when the high court of
the United Nations said
the Japanese can no longer
go out with their research
vessels--
>>LISA: Whaling.
Yes.
>>CORI: And they will
find another way,
because the mandate
was very specific.
They can't use
the research veil.
And Paul will be out there--
>>LISA: Again.
>>CORI: --again.
And so what can one person do?
What can an organization do?
We can move mountains.
And if we remember that
we're eight billion people
on this planet and we
can open consciousness
to the responsibility for
being guardians of this planet,
we will heal this planet.
>>LISA: Do you
feel that you have
this passion and this mission
because you've been here before
in another life?
>>CORI: Thank you
for that question.
Yes, I do.
I believe that I was there
when Atlantis went down.
And it is a very
similar paradigm.
>>LISA: What's the
feeling that you feel?
>>CORI: The feeling is
we are on the precipice
of total destruction or
total salvation-- or not even
salvation-- total rebirth.
And I think that this
can go either way,
and that this time,
we will not go down.
Because it seems to me that
the human race only really gets
moving when we're
up against the wall.
If you think about it, in those
moments of total disaster,
that's when our humanity
really comes shining through.
>>LISA: If you were on
Atlantis, and if it did sink,
what do you feel you
could have done about it?
>>CORI: Huh.
I don't know.
I'm not sure if I have
an answer for that.
>>LISA: Esoteric question, but
I know you'll go there with me.
Because just as if-- I see that
this, what you're doing now,
is your chance to
do that over again.
>>CORI: I think that there
was an abuse of technology
on Atlantis, and it
was crystal technology.
And we know the myths about
crystal pyramids and whatever.
And I really do remember a
lot of this lifetime there.
>>LISA: In what way?
>>CORI: I have visions.
I have dreams all the
time of crystal pyramids.
And one specific
thing that I remember
is putting my hand on the
wall of a pyramid, a crystal
pyramid, and being able
to walk right through it.
>>LISA: Oh, wow.
>>CORI: So we are at that
point again with technology.
We're doing teleportation.
We're not being told
everything they're doing.
But if we are at this point
where we're now being told that
they've been able to
move a quantum of light
by teleportation, then we can
be comfortable to know that
they're--
>>LISA: There's a lot greater--
>>CORI: --already moving
maybe even cities.
>>LISA: More
advanced technologies
are definitely out there, yes.
>>CORI: And so I think that
this abuse of that power
is happening again.
And that the people were asleep.
And I'm trying to wake them
up as best as I know how.
>>LISA: Well, let's
take a look here
at a video clip of Patricia
talking about Atlantis.
Take a look.
>>CORI: I do have an
extraordinary recall
of Atlantis, vivid recall
of more than one lifetime.
So being here is as much about
being with the cetaceans, being
out on the ocean-- which
I adore-- as it is tuning
into the vibration of this
earth, this place in the middle
of nowhere, in the middle
of the Atlantic Ocean,
where I am so sure--
such conviction
that I have walked
many other lifetimes.
And that this is
something I share
with people that
are with me now.
It is so powerful.
You can-- for people who
don't believe in past lives
or reincarnation, it's easy
to dismiss as a fantasy.
But for those of us who do,
when you return to a place
you've been before,
there is a knowing that
is so deep, so profound,
that it defies description.
And it's very personal.
You will never convince
another person of it.
It's something that's
yours to hold sacred.
And so when I'm asked,
what is this like for you,
aside from the joy of
being a person who's
able to guide other
people to the experience,
for me it is adding
another little piece
of the puzzle of cellular
memory of the soul's journey,
putting another little
piece in that jigsaw
as it begins to take form
and all these little pieces
begin to create the image, the
tapestry, of where you've been,
what you've come to do,
and where you're headed.
>>LISA: Those that
are familiar and feel
that resonance that you
have with Atlantis probably
appreciate watching that,
because it resonates in a way
that you can't explain.
It's a vibration.
It's a feeling.
It's an essence, right?
>>CORI: Indeed.
And, you know, the thing is
that all through humanity we're
searching for Atlantis.
It had to have been such an
important part of our planet,
because there isn't
a civilization that
wasn't searching for
Atlantis, from the Greeks
to the Egyptians.
And still today, perhaps
even more than before,
we search Atlantis.
And I think that we're
putting it back together.
>>LISA: It's apropos that
we're speaking about it,
because what we're
going through right now
is mimicking the story in a very
odd way with the devastation
that we're facing.
But the book is a
little bit about this.
It's kind of bringing this
about in a novel form, right?
>>CORI: Yeah.
Well, the story
of "The Emissary"
proposes that we
are at a precipice,
and the whales and
dolphins are trying
to communicate to humankind
that if we don't take action--
and it has to do with
the music of the oceans--
there will be a great calamity
and the planet will come down.
>>LISA: But what's the action?
>>CORI: Well, I don't want to
give away the book completely,
but one of the
urgent things, again,
as we talked about earlier
is stopping the sonar,
stopping the machinery
and the technology that
is blasting this planet with
extremely low frequency waves,
laser waves, and all
of this high tech
weaponry that we don't
actually know about,
but which is
devastating the ecology.
>>LISA: Well, if
someone like Paul Watson
could do what he did and
make such a huge difference
and start an organization
like a Greenpeace,
there are two million
environmental organizations
on this planet.
Two million.
So that means that there is a
cry for people to want to help,
to want to do something but
it's-- they're all individual
organizations.
>>CORI: Exactly.
>>LISA: They're not
the same organization.
>>CORI: Exactly.
And unfortunately, many
times these organizations
have their own agenda.
They're-- we're looking for
sponsors and for support.
So they're-- we're not sharing
as much as we need to be,
because in order to effect
change we need to unite forces,
and you're spot on about that.
And I'm hoping--
>>LISA: Imagine if all of
those millions of organizations
got together in one place,
that would move some mountains.
>>CORI: I was recently in
the WhaleFest in Brighton
in England, and it was
very exciting to see
all of these
organizations united,
and 15,000 people--
many children-- coming
to learn more.
So we're getting there.
>>LISA: Tell me
about the children.
You mentioned
educating children.
>>CORI: You know, I think I can
wrap this into a small story,
and that is at the concert,
a little boy came up to me
and he was with
his mom, and he had
a little-- I had
donation envelopes--
and he handed me this envelope,
and he said, "I'm sorry.
It's not very much
for the dolphins,
but will you give it to them?"
>>LISA: Aww.
>>CORI: And I said,
"It's so much."
"And when I get bigger I'm
going to help them more."
And I opened up this little
envelope, and there was,
I think, $0.20 in it.
And I said, this is the hope
of the world, right here.
And if one child can be
touched by an event like that,
or a campaign, or
whatever, that person
could possibly go on to
effect enormous change.
So the children are the
guardians of the future.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
>>CORI: They are the vision.
And they are inheriting
quite a mess.
>>LISA: They are
going to be living it.
Yes.
>>CORI: So they need
to be very aware of it
now and grow with it and know
that probably one of the most
important things
of their lives will
be to heal the ecological
imbalance on this planet.
>>LISA: It is going to
be their biggest plight.
Absolutely.
You take people on journeys
to areas, the Azores Islands
specifically.
What do you do when you
take them on the journeys,
and who do you bring?
>>CORI: I have a
wonderful following,
which I'm really
pleased to announce.
And it's over many, many
years and many books later.
So I take trips
to Egypt, and I'm
talking about opening
the gates and getting
into the other dimensions.
I do trips to Egypt
where I get people
into the temples in the
middle of the night.
So we're there alone
with the energies there,
and it's quite a
remarkable experience.
>>LISA: Is it?
>>CORI: Yes.
You have to come.
>>LISA: The stories
must be amazing.
>>CORI: They are.
They are.
>>LISA: What was one of the
most extraordinary stories?
>>CORI: I think the--
with a group or by myself?
>>LISA: By yourself.
>>CORI: By myself.
I decided that I wanted to
get into a temple alone.
It's called Abydos temple.
And the village people are
scared to death of this temple
because at night
they hear ghosts.
They hear so much
activity inside there
that they're terrified.
And they're also
Muslims so that is not
appropriate for their religion
and their belief systems.
So I know a lot of people
there, and I said, OK, I
want to be locked inside
the temple at night.
And my contact there said, why?
What will happen to you?
I said, trust me.
I'm very comfortable
with spirits,
because I walk
between the worlds.
But I do not want to be
locked in with any Egyptians,
you know, in the
middle of the night.
But ghosts are just fine.
So we could--
>>LISA: Nothing
against the Egyptians.
It's just--
>>CORI: Exactly.
No it's just like
I wouldn't want
to be locked in a dark place
with people that I don't know.
So I went into this
temple within the temple,
which is called the Isis chapel.
And we pretended that I was a
tourist, which is ridiculous,
because I go there often
and they all know me.
I kind of stand out
at six foot tall.
But I got locked in.
And I'll tell you what, when
I heard that click, click--
five clicks of the
key-- I had a moment of,
what are you doing here.
>>LISA: What are you doing?
>>CORI: And I was-- I went
into a really altered state.
In the dark.
In this ancient Egyptian,
8,000 year old temple.
>>LISA: Wow, the history.
>>CORI: This big temple, too.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>CORI: And I had,
suddenly, a vision
of priests, Egyptian priests
with the traditional garb,
a little braid coming
out of their bald heads.
And they were walking toward me.
And I didn't realize I was
in such an altered state,
and I tried to move,
because I thought-- oh,
and the one in front had
a basket with an offering.
So he was coming toward
me with this offering,
and I realized that he
was bringing an offering
to this chapel, Isis chapel.
And I wanted to get out of
the way and I couldn't move.
I kept trying to move,
and I was absolutely
unable to move my physical body.
And then from behind
them came a high priest.
And he walked up to me, and
he started to-- at one point,
he was giving me some
sort of a download.
And I mean, this
was probably one
of the most powerful
experiences of my life.
>>LISA: Oh, yes.
>>CORI: And right in the middle
of this lasers of golden light,
I hear this voice,
"Madam!" "Madam!"
And it was one of the
Egyptians that was outside.
They were all part of this
plot, because this was illegal.
So they had all been
taken care of, let's say.
And apparently someone
had gone to the police
and told them that there
was somebody in the temple.
So they had to get me out.
But because they were all
terrified of this ghost thing,
he wouldn't come in.
So as I'm sitting there getting
this incredible download--
>>LISA: Oh, my god.
>>CORI: --I have this,
please, come out, come out!
>>LISA: What a--
>>CORI: It broke me.
It broke the trance.
>>LISA: Did your life change
in any way after that?
Did you think it
was interrupted?
>>CORI: Yeah.
I thought that
actually, it might
have been when I was going
to leave this planet.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>CORI: I did, because
it was so incredible.
And another fascinating
part of this story
is that my friend in Egypt,
when I told him what I'd seen,
he turned white.
And he said, this
is unbelievable,
because there's a man.
His house is backed
up to the temple.
And there's been
some waste going
into the wall of the temple.
And he always talks
about the-- he
moved, because these
priests and the high priest
were scaring him
and threatening him.
So it was an
interesting validation--
>>LISA: That, oh, the
stories, yes, coinciding.
>>CORI: --the exact same.
>>LISA: What about
with the group?
Was there anything
that the group
had experienced
when they went in?
Yes?
>>CORI: Well, I take
them into the-- just
imagine the typical trip,
and then coming with me
and the Karnak
temple in Luxor has
200,000 to 500,000 people a day.
So you're standing
in this temple
in the middle of the day,
and it's sweltering hot,
and you've got the little
guys with the flag,
and people saying, honey,
move over next to the statue,
I want to take a picture.
It's not conducive to
having any kind of deep--
>>LISA: Spiritual experience.
Yes.
>>CORI: But when
I take people, I
open these places in the middle
of the night-- it costs me
a lot of money to do that.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>CORI: And we're the only ones.
And when we walk in
I say, just remember,
you've done this before.
So let's approach
this not as tourists,
but as spiritual warriors,
spiritual seekers.
>>LISA: Adventurers.
>>CORI: And when those
gates open and it's only us,
can you imagine, 4:00 in
the morning with the stars
and the whole--
>>LISA: And
obviously, the people
that are attracted to
these types of journeys
have been there before
and have that experience,
or that knowledge or knowing
that they in some way
are called to go all
the way across the world
from where they're coming from.
>>CORI: Exactly.
But what's so great
about that is often
they say, oh, Patricia,
another midnight wake up call?
And I say, hey, there's
two ways you can do this.
If you're a spiritual
seeker, you've got to work.
You've got to-- seeking
means going through whatever
it takes to get the experience.
And that doesn't mean having
your breakfast at 8 o'clock
and getting on a tour
bus and getting there
with 800 million other people,
but rather to be the privileged
that are there like
the priesthood,
walking in with the
dignity of that.
>>LISA: What an experience.
>>CORI: It is amazing.
>>LISA: That is life changing.
>>CORI: It is.
>>LISA: And you're very
brave to take people
onto these journeys.
And you've done, I'm sure,
a lot of relationship
building to get them there.
>>CORI: Yeah.
I have to say that
often people will
put on social media,
my life I define
as pre Egypt with
Patricia Cori, and after,
which is so wonderful.
>>LISA: So their lives have
completely transformed.
>>CORI: Yes.
>>LISA: And I can
imagine, as well,
if you bring them to
the area of Atlantis.
>>CORI: Yes, because
we swim with dolphins.
And I have a particular
way of working
with that, as other animal,
whale whisperers do.
It's not just, oh
look at the dolphins.
We have to ask permission.
Let's ask them if we are
allowed into their pod.
And we always get these
amazing experiences,
like the clip that
you showed where the--
>>LISA: Turned on his
belly and he just--
>>CORI: --swimming up and down.
And those particular Risso's,
as I said in the clip--
>>LISA: I've never
seen that before.
That's--
>>CORI: They don't do that.
They are very shy.
They're not like humpbacks,
who are more curious.
>>LISA: But you really teach--
it's the communication,
it's the receiving that
you teach with the animals.
>>CORI: Yes.
And the honoring of sacred
space, of consciousness,
coming to it with that
kind of honor and dignity.
>>LISA: Well, thank
you for letting
us walk in your world
for a little while here.
What a fascinating life
you have, Anna Jones.
>>CORI: I love it.
>>LISA: That's my
new name for you.
>>CORI: I love it.
>>CORI: Patricia Cori
is actually her name.
And if you would like to
watch a replay of my interview
with Patricia, you
can go to gaiamtv.com,
and you can share it
with your friends.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]